# **Epidemiology and Data Science: Measles Vaccination Coverage in Africa**

**Abstract: 

Vaccinations are an important part of healthcare and not everyone has access to them due to failing healthcare systems and a lack of access to resources. The measles is a disease which can be protected against by a vaccination, but people in Africa especially have decreased access to it due to their location or the cost of the vaccines. There are two systems in rolling out immunizations: routine immunizations (RI) and supplemental immunization activities (SIA). Despite these programs, many areas in Africa including Sub-Saharan Africa and other poorer parts of the country are lacking levels of immunization. Because certain areas do not have access to this medicine, it creates cold spots, vulnerable regions, where the spread of disease is easier and more likely. Data science methods have been used to try and eliminate the disparities in vaccination rates. Geospatial techniques and the Bayesian model have been used. Determining where people are that still need to receive the immunizations is crucial and made easier using geospatial techniques. The Bayesian model helps determine what factors contribute to the varying levels of vaccinations and the factors that could affect immunization distribution. Figuring out why vaccines are reaching everyone and why these systems are failing to work in parts of Africa, while they have increased immunization levels in other countries, is a major problem that needs to be resolved in order to continue human development. 
